---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/posts/personal/mostafa-mehraeein-s-open-letter-to-iran-leaders/","created":"2025-06-24T22:14:14.892+04:00","updated":"2025-06-24T22:30:16.732+04:00"}
---

In the midst of the Iran Israel war in June 2025, I have so far found myself to resonate the most with the below open letter from [Mostafa Mehraeein](https://independent.academia.edu/MostafaMehraeen/CurriculumVitae),  currently Assistant Professor of the Institute for Humanities and Cultural Studies. Below is a translation of his open letter to the supreme leader of Iran: 

---
> Address to supreme leader of Iran and other political and military officials: Immediately end the war and relinquish power.
> 
> Esteemed sirs, regardless of what kind of government Israel is and what has transpired between Jews and Palestinian Arabs, ***you have no right to destroy the land of Iran, its people, and its other assets, solely based on your ideological arguments and analyses, all of which are incorrect and have brought nothing but ruin to this land***. As an Iranian, I have the right to ask you: ***who or what has given you the right and legitimacy to destroy our country and its integrity, which is a legacy of the great figures and martyrs of this land for its current people***? I explicitly warn you, as a citizen with the right to self-determination over my life, as a child of this land, and on behalf of the noble and peace-loving people of this land:
> 
> A: End this madness, insanity, warmongering, and destructiveness. Whether you like it or not, the experience of just a few days of war and destruction unleashed by the Israeli army in this country shows that you neither have the right to wage war on behalf of the Iranian people ***nor the ability to fight on your own and through your style of governance in recent years***. The events of these few days have shown that this country lacks a government; otherwise, how could this entire land be under attack, and you be unable to defend any of its assets? The current reality indicates that you are not competent to govern this country, and the time has come for you to relinquish power and allow this land to regain its desired and efficient political order.
> 
> B. Now that the country is on the verge of destruction, immediately return to negotiations with America and end the war by accepting the conditions of the global order. Know that your return to negotiations is solely to end the war. Whether you like it or not, the people of this land, from all walks of life, no longer recognize you as their rulers, and consider your continued presence in the country's politics a disgrace to the wisdom, ethics, and political history of this land. End the war so that a group of elites, both inside and outside this country, can take charge of the government of this land and manage and control the political and security situation of the country. The only favor the people will grant you is to allow you, based on their wisdom and ethics and as fellow citizens, to continue your normal lives and treat you based on the principle of justice.
> 
> C. Today's Iranian people, from all walks of life, whether believers in Islam or secular, are all familiar with the realities of the global order and the unjust conditions prevailing within it, and they know what a rational way of life is in today's global order. Therefore, instead of accusing the people of not understanding global conditions and relations, simply do not turn the transition of power into a catastrophe and allow the political forces, elites, and new politicians of this land, by forming a new political system in this country and normalizing the lives of the people and the country's relations with other countries, to return the country's situation to normal. I warn you against creating chaos and turmoil in the country, making the lives of the people and the country's situation worse than it already is. The end of the Islamic Republic's order has arrived. The people of Iran have told you this many times. Accept it and join the people of Iran in creating its new political system and its new socio-political order so that the people of Iran can witness at least one ethical and humane act from you in all these years. I warn you against even thinking of creating oppression, tyranny, conflict, and bloodshed in this land. Let both your own families and the noble people of this land experience normal life. Stop your empty and meaningless rhetoric, speeches, and slogans, and respect the will of the Iranian people, which is the will for a normal life. You are no longer the rulers of this land, but since the global order currently recognizes you as the political representatives of this country, immediately return to negotiations and end the war so that the people of the country can enable a new political order.
> 
> D. Finally, addressing the noble, dear, and helpless people of my land, and other political forces, scientific, academic, cultural, artistic, and athletic elites of my country, I say: Today is not a day for silence. Whether these gentlemen end the war within the next twenty-four hours or not, come into the streets yourselves, carrying white flags or wearing white clothes, and with the sole slogan of "Peace with the World," declare to the world: we demand an end to the war and the creation of a new Iran: a prosperous, free, and powerful Iran. This is the first action of us, the ordinary people of this land, in defense of our country and the creation of a new Iran.
> 
> Sociology Teacher  
> Mostafa Mehrayin